So another common source where you're going to find data is going to
be not S3 but an actual Hadoop Distributed File System.
So we talked about this a little bit before when we were looking
inside the EMR page for testing that our cluster is up and running,
but you can actually go to your cluster and as one of the connections,
you can actually open up the HDFS file system or the Hadoop Distributed File System.
By going here, you'll get a quick overview of the system and that it's working,
but the actual place that will be helpful to look at is
under Utilities and then browse the file system.
So the Hadoop Distributed File System is just like
a file system that you'd have on cluster or on a local machine.
It is distributed but from your perspective it looks just like a normal file system.
So most of what you would actually want to use is inside this users folder.
So right now, there's a number of folders that are set up by
the Amazon EMR and we
need to actually put some data in here before we can start using Spark with it.
So let's go ahead and learn how to write files to the Hadoop Distributed File System.
So to do that what you'll want to do is open up your terminal,
and if you remember from before,
we can actually SSH directly into our Spark in my cluster.
I used the config file to set it up which gives me this nice short command.
If you didn't use that, you can use the command from the previous concept.
But when you do that you should be able to log into the EMR cluster.
What you'll first need to do is copy the actual files that we want to put
into our distributed file system onto this EMR cluster.
So to do that,
I'm going to actually log out again,
but there's a nice command that does that for you which is simply SCP command.
So just to review,
I've actually got some data,
the data that we want on my desktop.
Specifically I have those two JSON files
already stored on my desktop along with some other files.
So from here, what we want to do is actually copy these two files over to our cluster,
and we can use the SCP command to do that.
That's just a copy that uses the Shell or the SSH,
so a lot like the CP command that you would use normally in Linux.
Let's copy those two files takes a few seconds for them to go across but pretty quickly.
Then let's go, ahead and log back into the cluster.
If we wait for a second and get back into that cluster,
if we type LS we should be able to see those two files that we just transferred over.
So now that they're on the actual cluster, the EMR cluster,
what we need to do is copy them into the HDFS system.
So right now even though there on that machine,
they're not actually in this cluster.
If we hit "Refresh", we still won't see anything here.
So rather than just copying them into this folder,
what we first want to do is create a new folder for our data.
This is just from a perspective of keeping things organized but it's a best practice.
So what we're going to do is go ahead and
create a new folder but within the Hadoop Distributed File System.
So to do that, you have to kind of use this kind of odd language.
If you were to just try to create a folder locally,
you might use something like make dir.
But instead, you have to perceive this command with HDFS DFS.
It's kind of an odd thing that you have to do it twice
but for historical reasons it's still there.
Then you type the command that you would use,
almost always the same command that you'd use and just Linux,
but with a hyphen proceeding it and then the name of the folder that we want to create.
So we're going to put it in that user sub-directory
and then we'll call it something like sparkify data.
That's where we're going to keep all our data for this application sparsify.
So after doing that,
we should hopefully have everything be successful.
Just in case you want to know,
you can always type HDFS by
itself and they'll give you a list of all the different commands.
If you want to see the HDFS DFS commands,
again you'll get a list of all the commands.
So if you ever forget the syntax you can always just write that and, for example,
they'll show you exactly the sort of commands that you have available.
So the command that we actually want to use is one of these ones up here,
specifically, copy from local.
So we have this file on the machine and not in the Hadoop Distributed File System,
it's just on the EMR cluster.
What we want to do is we want to copy that to the actual HDFS.
So to do that,
we'll go and type that command.
So again, we always precede these commands with HDFS DFS,
and then we'll do the copy from local.
Then we're going to specify the name of the file and i'm using autocomplete to do that.
Let's go ahead and put that in the user sparkify data sub-directory that we just created.
So we'll go ahead and do this,
and we'll go ahead and return back to
our browser to see that HDFS UI and go ahead and refresh,
and now we'll see not only is there this folder that we created,
but within that we can see the sparkify log file that we just made.
So right now we just have that one.
Let's go ahead and copy over that second file as well.
It's just the same thing but with two attached to it.
Again, let's double check that it actually went there and there it is.
So you could actually inspect it,
you could look at some more properties for it,
but for our sake it's just good to see that it's there.
So once you have the file actually on HDFS,
let's return back to our spark log book and let's actually try to read data from that.
So let's create a new cell.
Again, you can find some of these commands here but it's very similar you would
just almost exactly the same as our previous command to read it from S3.
The key difference being here is that you instead of putting S3 n in front,
you actually specify HDFS,
and then it does look like an actual file path.
Now I will note that there's one kind of confusing thing here which is much like
you'd type HTTP:// to get a URL.
You do the same thing here for HDFS.
However, because the actual file and if we go to this from here,
the actual file that you're getting this from is /user.
What this means is that,
you actually have the same /user here.
So you weirdly have these three slashes
in a row and that quite often is a place where you'll
see errors is that people will only forget this and only put one or two.
So if you do this and you actually try loading the same data,
you will see everything seems to happen.
Spark again now pulls the data but this time it pulls it from HDFS,
and we can run the same exact command as below.
Let's go in and actually look at this data,
and let's go ahead and read like the first three lines of it.
We'll go ahead and see the data is pulling as we expected,
and we can actually see all of this status.
So looks good so far everything's working as expected,
and this is how you pull data from both HDFS S3 and from the files themselves.